Add ES exporter to application.yaml (#4031)
camunda/camunda-docs: docs/guides/react-components/install-plain-java.md

- OpenJDK 21+ locally installed

> - Camunda `8.6.0-alpha2` or later

Reviewer: I'm not sure if we need Camunda as a prereq if we're going to direct them to install it below - this might be fine with just OpenJDK as the requirement.

Author: I prefer to be extra explicit until this is GA'd (and not only available in specific alphas).

### Download and configure Elasticsearch

1. Download [Elasticsearch 8.9.2](https://www.elastic.co/downloads/past-releases/elasticsearch-8-9-2).

> 2. Disable Elasticsearch's security packages by setting the `xpack.security.*` configuration options to `false` in `ELASTICSEARCH_HOME/config/elasticsearch.yml`.

Author: I added this to the bottom of the file that was entirely commented out. No additional config needed, just the single line at the bottom of the file, which for me was line 84:

`xpack.security.*: false`

> 2. Disable Elasticsearch's security packages by setting the `xpack.security.*` configuration options to `false` in `ELASTICSEARCH_HOME/config/elasticsearch.yml`.

Reviewer: The wildcard security config didn't work for me; it always seems to fail with `java.lang.IllegalArgumentException: unknown setting [xpack.security.*] did you mean [xpack.security.user]?`. 

To reproduce: 
I wasn't sure where to put `xpack.security.*: false` initially, and also ended up with entering what you have on like 84. Attempting to run this fresh install of elasticsearch then auto-generates a series of security config options which don't appear to care that `xpack.security.*: false` was set. It'd always fail on the wildcard line with or without the generated config.

Ultimately, I started with a clean install again, and ran elasticsearch for the first time to autogenerate the config. I then set everything generated manually to false, and removed the extra lines, and ended up with this:
```yaml
xpack.security.enabled: false

xpack.security.enrollment.enabled: false

# Enable encryption for HTTP API client connections, such as Kibana, Logstash, and Agents
xpack.security.http.ssl:
  enabled: false

# Enable encryption and mutual authentication between cluster nodes
xpack.security.transport.ssl:
  enabled: false 
  ```
  It appears to be running after that point. I tested a few of these lines individually to see the minimum config needed, and I think all of them might need to be set.

> 2. Disable Elasticsearch's security packages by setting the `xpack.security.*` configuration options to `false` in `ELASTICSEARCH_HOME/config/elasticsearch.yml`.

Reviewer: Where ever we land with the install steps, a version of this line that reads a little more clearly could look like the following: 
```suggestion
2. Navigate to the directory where you installed Elasticsearch, and open `/config/elasticsearch.yaml`. Add the line `xpack.security.*: false` to the bottom of the configuration to disable Elasticsearch's security packages.
```

Reviewer 2: In my opinion, it should still contain the statement that it is only meant for non-production use cases. If they go in production, users should consider to configure security in ES (whatever it looks like).

Author: Since this is a get started guide, I hope no one uses this in production, so I was also hoping I could be brief here and remove it. We can add this back, but I would also want to add a link to our production setup guides.

Author: Added a warning admonition in an incoming commit.

Author: @conceptualshark I also modified your suggestion slightly, as I _think_ we only need the one line of config as you mentioned in a recent comment on this PR.

> 2. Disable Elasticsearch's security packages by setting the `xpack.security.*` configuration options to `false` in `ELASTICSEARCH_HOME/config/elasticsearch.yml`.

Author: @conceptualshark just to verify, you needed to add extra security config was with alpha2, alpha3, or both?

> 2. Disable Elasticsearch's security packages by setting the `xpack.security.*` configuration options to `false` in `ELASTICSEARCH_HOME/config/elasticsearch.yml`.

Reviewer: @akeller This was prior to any Camunda install, so only when attempting the "Download and configure elasticsearch" section.

1. Download elasticsearch
2. Edit `config/elasticsearch.yml` to include `xpack.security.*: false`
3. Running `bin/elasticsearch` results in `java.lang.IllegalArgumentException: unknown setting [xpack.security.*] did you mean [xpack.security.user]?`.

> 2. Disable Elasticsearch's security packages by setting the `xpack.security.*` configuration options to `false` in `ELASTICSEARCH_HOME/config/elasticsearch.yml`.

Author: Oh! So just to stand up Elasticsearch! I misunderstood. I didn't run into this.

> 3. Start Elasticsearch by running `ELASTICSEARCH_HOME/bin/elasticsearch` (or `ELASTICSEARCH_HOME\bin\elasticsearch.bat` on Windows).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Start Elasticsearch by running `ELASTICSEARCH_HOME/bin/elasticsearch` (or `ELASTICSEARCH_HOME\bin\elasticsearch.bat` on Windows).

Confirm Elasticsearch is running by visiting `http://localhost:9200` in a browser. If the response doesn't include version information formatted as JSON, you will need to troubleshoot your installation.
```

This should help us catch failed Elasticsearch installations proactively. 

And if we want to add an example, this is what mine looks like: 

```json
{
    "name": "Stevens-MBP.attlocal.net",
    "cluster_name": "elasticsearch",
    "cluster_uuid": "kl8KQQnLQlqkoS1gvbai_A",
    "version": {
        "number": "8.9.2",
        "build_flavor": "default",
        "build_type": "tar",
        "build_hash": "e8179018838f55b8820685f92e245abef3bddc0f",
        "build_date": "2023-08-31T02:43:14.210479707Z",
        "build_snapshot": false,
        "lucene_version": "9.7.0",
        "minimum_wire_compatibility_version": "7.17.0",
        "minimum_index_compatibility_version": "7.0.0"
    },
    "tagline": "You Know, for Search"
}
```

### Download and configure Camunda

> 1. Download the [latest release artifact](https://github.com/camunda/camunda/releases), starting with [8.6.0-alpha2](https://github.com/camunda/camunda/releases/tag/8.6.0-alpha2).

Reviewer: Running alpha2 seemed to result in a version mismatch for me, but running alpha3 went fine:

`io.camunda.operate.schema.SchemaStartup - Schema startup failed: Error(s) in index schema: Newer version(s) for operation (8.4.0) already exists: [8.4.1]`

Author: @romansmirnov thoughts on this?

Reviewer 2: Assumption: The same ES instance has been used, but first, alpha3 was started, creating an index in version 8.4.1, and then alpha2 was started, expecting the index to be in version 8.4.0.

Can you please confirm my understanding? If so, I don't recommend using the ES instance and switching from a new C8 version to an old C8 version.

Author: @conceptualshark I don't know if we should expect people using the same ES instance (purposefully or accidentally). Can I give you a follow up here to maybe add a small troubleshooting section or think more about this experience for new users?

Reviewer: The only thing I can think of that would have impacted this is having started C8SM Run on this machine (it was not running at the time). When I tested this PR, I ran ES + alpha2, failed with the above error, stopped both, then reinstalled and ran ES + alpha3, so I am not sure why an index (or even ES instance) would have been maintained. 

Unfortunately, I can't add anything for resolving it, because it still doesn't work on my machine (I had to run it in a VM).

> 1. Download the [latest release artifact](https://github.com/camunda/camunda/releases), starting with [8.6.0-alpha2](https://github.com/camunda/camunda/releases/tag/8.6.0-alpha2).

Author: Find them is still super non-trivial IMO, but I agree this helps a bit.

> 1. Download the [latest release artifact](https://github.com/camunda/camunda/releases), starting with [8.6.0-alpha2](https://github.com/camunda/camunda/releases/tag/8.6.0-alpha2).

Author: Added to an incoming commit.

> 2. Modify the `application.yaml` to include the Elasticsearch exporter by adding the following to line 91:

Reviewer: We should format this the same way we do for finding and editing the elasticsearch config, and specify that this is in the `config` folder.

Author: I'll re-request a review and see where we are at with this, but resolving this convo for now.

```
    exporters:
      elasticsearch:
        className: io.camunda.zeebe.exporter.ElasticsearchExporter
        args:
          url: http://localhost:9200
          index:
            prefix: zeebe-record

> ```

Reviewer 3: ~~~suggestion
2. Modify the `application.yaml` to include the Elasticsearch exporter by adding the following as a child of the `zeebe`/`broker` configuration element:

```
zeebe:
  broker:
    ...
    exporters:
      elasticsearch:
        className: io.camunda.zeebe.exporter.ElasticsearchExporter
        args:
          url: http://localhost:9200
          index:
            prefix: zeebe-record
```
~~~

My alpha2 download had different line numbers than yours (not sure why). Specifying the _logical_ placement of this configuration element should avoid problems with that drift, and help avoid mis-indentation and mis-placement.

:::note

> Spacing is important! Ensure four spaces and proper nesting of configuration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Spacing is important! Indent the `exporters` element four spaces to properly nest the configuration.
```

"Ensure four spaces" threw me off because the example uses two-space indentation....but I think you meant that the `exporters` element itself is indented four spaces.

Reviewer 3: If there is a consistent sibling next to it, then I think that makes sense! But I don't have a strong opinion either way.

Reviewer 3: After further review, I think this can be aided by my comment on the previous block -- specifying the _logical_ location of the configuration block, instead of physical.

<details>

> <summary>Still need help?</summary>

Reviewer 3: I do like the use of details/summary to hide the full application.yaml.

Reviewer: Agreed - if it seems like the spacing might be an issue, stating that they can replace the entire contents with the provided file could help.

    # ELS instance to export Zeebe data to
    zeebeElasticsearch:
      # Cluster name
      clusterName: elasticsearch
      # URL
      url: http://localhost:9200
      # Index prefix, configured in Zeebe Elasticsearch exporter
      prefix: zeebe-record
  # Tasklist configuration properties
  tasklist:
    # Set Tasklist username and password.
    # If user with <username> does not exists it will be created.
    # Default: demo/demo
    #username:
    #password:
    # ELS instance to store Tasklist data
    elasticsearch:
      # Cluster name
      clusterName: elasticsearch
      # URL
      url: http://localhost:9200
    # Zeebe instance
    zeebe:
      # Gateway address
      gatewayAdress: localhost:26500
    # ELS instance to export Zeebe data to
    zeebeElasticsearch:
      # Cluster name
      clusterName: elasticsearch
      # Url
      url: http://localhost:9200
      # Index prefix, configured in Zeebe Elasticsearch exporter
      prefix: zeebe-record

```

</details>

:::

Save the file. Without performing this step, no data will be visible in Operate or Tasklist.

3. To start Camunda, run `bin/camunda` (or `bin\camunda.bat` on Windows).

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

It may take a few minutes for startup to complete. When the message `Started StandaloneCamunda in ___ seconds` is displayed, the application is ready to use.

```

Non-blocking, but I was personally not sure when I should expect it to start responding. 

This is based on these messages being the last output before I was able to finally hit mine: 

```
2024-07-19 15:16:56.786 [] [main] [] INFO 
      io.camunda.application.StandaloneCamunda - Started StandaloneCamunda in 196.726 seconds (process running for 198.442)
2024-07-19 15:16:56.797 [] [main] [] INFO 
      io.camunda.operate.schema.migration.SchemaMigration - SchemaMigration finished.
```

:::tip
Operate can be found at `http://localhost:8080/` and Tasklist can be found at `http://localhost:8080/tasklist`.

> :::

Reviewer 3: I feel like there is a default user/password I can use to log in at this point, but I can't remember what it is or where to find it! We should definitely mention it here.

Author: demo/demo

- OpenJDK 21+ locally installed
- Camunda `8.6.0-alpha2` or later

### Download and configure Elasticsearch

1. Download [Elasticsearch 8.9.2](https://www.elastic.co/downloads/past-releases/elasticsearch-8-9-2).
2. Disable Elasticsearch's security packages by setting the `xpack.security.*` configuration options to `false` in `ELASTICSEARCH_HOME/config/elasticsearch.yml`.

> 3. Start Elasticsearch by running `ELASTICSEARCH_HOME/bin/elasticsearch` (or `ELASTICSEARCH_HOME\bin\elasticsearch.bat` on Windows).

Reviewer 4: > 3. Start Elasticsearch by running `ELASTICSEARCH_HOME/bin/elasticsearch` (or `ELASTICSEARCH_HOME\bin\elasticsearch.bat` on Windows).

I assume `ELASTICSEARCH_HOME/bin/elasticsearch` works for Mac/Linux, and Windows is the only exception worth noting here?
